## About
This repo houses data for ["The Capacious Sacrament of Necessity: Ethnic and Racial Formation in Early American Baptismal Networks"](https://observablehq.com/@mkane2/baptismal-network-comparison-statistics?collection=@mkane2/baptismal-networks) by Maeve Kane, Department of History, University at Albany.

This project uses digital social network analysis (SNA) to examine these connections.  SNA uses computational methods to measure and analyze the structure of connections between individuals in a community, and detect influential individuals with many connections between community sub-groups.  My preliminary work on fifteen congregations shows that women were important connectors between ethnic sub-communities, suggesting the importance of family and gender in defining communities before the Revolution.  Recent scholarship has argued that European ethnic divisions were set aside in the years leading to the Revolution in favor of a white American identity that was formed in conscious contrast to Indigenous and Black racial identities.  This project examines the role of women in the daily lived experience of creating those identities and examine how Indigenous and Black communities navigated the shifting racial and ethnic hierarchies of the years leading to the Revolution.

The long term goal of the project is to develop a process to compare baptismal networks across time and space.  Computational measures of network structure, like measures of gender segregation, detection of ethnic subcommunities, and individuals who bridged these communities, can help examine the role of women.  Previous work in the field, including my own, has examined single congregations or communities.  This previous work has established the utility of social network analysis in examining community structure and yielded valuable insights into how social hierarchies emerge within one or two ethnic groups.  My new project proposes to compare many contemporaneous networks from the same geographic area to examine how neighboring ethnic and racial groups created community boundaries and established ties between one another.  This project will examine how American racial and political identity formed during the years leading to the American Revolution, and revise scholarly understanding of the active roles played by women and marginalized people of color in forming the American nation.